Hello,
my name is Rohit and in this project I
applied two complementary method random
forestries and forward backward feature
selection to improve model performance
and interpretability.
So random forests are powerful enable
models that build many decision trees on
random subsets of data and features.
They help identify which variables have
the greatest predictive power by
calculating which feature importance
scores based on how much each feature
reduces prediction error.
Then,
using forward and backward feature
selection, I refined the model further.
These methods iteratively add or remove
features,
evaluating performance at each step using
metrics like accuracy or R square to find
the optimal feature subset.
Together,
these approaches balance accuracy and
simplicity.
Random forests reveal which features
matter most,
and feature selection ensures that we
only keep the one set truly matters and
which improve predictive power.